# Welcome
Glad to have you here.

A *bit* about myself: I love **software applications** and the possibilities and capabilities they unlock for both users and developers to accomplish tasks, be productive, and _**create**_. My programming adventure began when I was **13**, kicking off things with the _easy-to-understand-but-a-bit-too-verbose_ **Java** programming language. Fast forward **4 years**, and Apple had introduced **Swift**, and I thought it was a good and clean opportunity to develop for **Apple platforms**. In a sense, the past **3 years** in my programming adventure have been rewarding, not only in the sense of gaining higher technical ability alone, but also the value and essence of working as a team and collaborating with effectiveness and efficiency. Beyond programming, I also enjoy video editing, and have been creating **anime music videos (AMVs)** for the last 3 years. You can find them on my **[YouTube Channel](https://youtube.com/animemusicvideosx)**.

My professional profile is available on **[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/mayank-kumar-478245b1/)** if you were curious.

## Education
I am pursuing a **bachelor's degree (B.S.) in Computer Science** at the **University of Massachusetts Amherst** and it has been exciting so far. I may pursue a **master's degree (M.S.)** in the same field after graduation, or perhaps, if I have the opportunity, to work an interesting job in the industry. I love **self-learning**, and personally find that it is quite an efficient and effective means to learn. Online course catalogs such as **Udemy** and **Udacity** have been instrumental in my self-learning process. Of note is the **iOS Nanodegree** that I completed on **Udacity**. It felt, at the time, like a huge mountain. But as is with climbing every mountain, you eventually reach the peak, and I'm glad to have made that effort.

## Experience
I have had the opportunity to intern as an **iOS Developer** at **Swisk Inc.** where I was responsible for developing the iOS version of their **Uber-like** application for ride-booking. Additionally, I have had the opportunity to assist my esteemed professor at my university as a **Teaching Assistant** for a **computer networking** course. I was responsible for weekly quizzes and developing problems for the course **midterm exam**. I do feel that I do not have amount of industry experience I would have hoped, but I also am happy that I utilized that time in honing my technical abilities through self-learning, as mentioned earlier.

## Projects
At the heart of every programmer's adventure are his or her projects, and some of mine are:
* **[Purge-NVDA](https://github.com/mayankk2308/purge-nvda)** - A tiny script for macOS users who wish to disable discrete **NVIDIA** graphics in their macs in case of overheating/failure. The script was originally developed with the motivation of enabling native external graphics support on **macOS High Sierra** for AMD for macs that load NVIDIA kexts on boot (the ones with discrete NVIDIA chips). These kexts conflict - making external graphics unusable. While, at the moment, the script is not guaranteed to work on High Sierra, it showed promising results on **Beta 4**, but did not function on **Beta 5**.
* **[MKDataDetector](https://github.com/mayankk2308/mkdatadetector-swift)** - A simple **open-source** convenience wrapper in **Swift** for data detection from natural language text. I personally find Apple's implementation of this **clunky**. This framework, well, **unclunkifies** that, and makes it super-easy for developers to incorporate a powerful **Cocoa** linguistic API. I would also like to thank my trusted collaborators and friends who made this project possible.
* **[UMass Pulse](https://itunes.apple.com/in/app/umass-pulse/id1082236162?mt=8)** - A sweet iOS application that does tons of **RSS parsing** to extract events from my university's online news portals, aggregates them, and presents them in a (dare I say) cool user interface. **Version 2** of the application brought a completely revamped reading experience. The application also includes device calendar integration for saving events. Unfortunately, I have, for the moment, ceased further development of the application. I feel that the application has tons of potential that I might unlock only with direct support and collaboration from the university. For various reasons, negotiations have failed and the application is at a standstill.
* **iOS Analytics** - An interesting project that tracks dynamic library loading on iOS, and presents that data for review on next launch. This has typically been accomplished using **Objective-C + C**, but this implementation is completely in **Swift**, although low-level function calls are still essential. I had the opportunity to work on this for an interview and was requested to not make it publicly available, hence my hesitation to share this online.
* **[ScanIt](https://github.com/Bynine/sharks-umass)** - An Android application that uses the device's camera to take pictures of printed media, extract the text, and as per user's request, define words in the text, and even solve simple math problems. This was developed as a part of a **software engineering** course alongside my trusted classmates who did a great job on their assigned parts of the application. I was responsible for the user interface and integration of the rest of the components of the application. It was quite a fun application to build - and thanks to other college work, all of us put it together in a single night (although we had planned substantially early on).
* **[Currency Converter](https://github.com/mayankk2308/currency-converter-ios)** - An iOS application that I developed as the **capstone** project for the **iOS Nanodegree**. Incorporating **networking principles**, **core data**, and a good user interface, it is perhaps the cleanest iOS application that I have ever built - with everything from planning to implementation under my control. The app is extremely quick, and converts rates from **USD** to other currencies using the latest market rates. It also has the option to save conversions with **associations** to compare to other conversions in the future.

## Skills
I always wonder - is it better to have many skills that you are good at, or a few that you excel at. Since I found it difficult to answer, I just thought - *"why not learn the stuff I need as I go along my adventure - and do it thoroughly well"* - thinking just like the **KISS (Keep It Simple Stupid)** philosophy.
As mentioned earlier, I started off with **Java**, and have since learnt **Swift**, **Scala**, **Python**, and **C**. I am fairly confident in the former two, and have adequate expertise in the rest. Beyond programming, I have tremendous experience with **Final Cut Pro** and **Motion** for video editing, **Affinity Photo** and **Adobe Photoshop** for some occasional photo editing, and **Audacity** for some rare audio work.

## Contact
You must be quite a reader to have come so far, and you have my gratitude for that. Thank you.
You can, of course, `checkout` (sorry couldn't resist) some of my work at **[GitHub](https://github.com/mayankk2308)**.
You can always reach me via LinkedIn, but if that does not suit you, there's always **[email](mailto:mayankk2308@gmail.com)**.
